Update the contribution guidance during the ECS/OTel donation period (#2480)
elastic/ecs: CONTRIBUTING.md

## How to contribute

### ECS donation to OpenTelemetry

In April 2023, Elastic and OpenTelemetry made an [important joint announcement](https://opentelemetry.io/blog/2023/ecs-otel-semconv-convergence/): Elastic intends to align the Elastic Common Schema (ECS) with
OpenTelemetry (OTel) Semantic Conventions, aiming to create a unified, community-maintained standard under OpenTelemetry.

> During the contribution process, several guidelines have been added to allow contributions to ECS which can be adopted to OpenTelemetry. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the contribution process, several guidelines have been added to allow contributions to ECS, ensuring they are aligned with OpenTelemetry.
```

#### How to contribute during ECS donation to OpenTelemetry

While ECS is being contributed to OpenTelemetry, schema changes are still possible—but they should align with how the changes could eventually be integrated into OpenTelemetry.

For significant changes—like new top-level fieldsets, use cases, or anything potentially controversial—follow the [ECS RFC process](rfcs/PROCESS.md).

Minor changes (e.g., bug fixes or small field additions) can go directly through pull requests to the ECS repository.

> When writing RFCs or designing fields, keep compatibility with OTel in mind. Pay close attention to naming, data types, and potential overlaps or conflicts with existing or proposed semantic conventions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When writing RFCs or designing fields, keep compatibility with OTel in mind. Pay close attention to naming, data types, and potential overlaps or conflicts with existing or proposed semantic conventions. Contributors should seek guidance from ECS maintainers or the Semantic Conventions community if in doubt.
```

> Any changes proposed for ECS should also be submitted to the [OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions repository](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions)—either before or in parallel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any changes proposed for ECS should also be submitted to the [OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions repository](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions)—either before or in parallel; however, your Otel PR does not need to be merged first.
```

shared its intention to achieve convergence of ECS and OTel Semantic Conventions into a single standard maintained
by OpenTelemetry.

#### How to contribute during OTel donation of ECS

During the contribution of ECS to OpenTelemetry, changes to the ECS schema can be made, but they should take into consideration how the changes
can eventually be added to OpenTelemetry.

The [ECS RFC process](rfcs/PROCESS.md) will apply to larger, material changes to the schema, such as changes that add new use cases, top-level fieldsets, or could
be considered controversial. Bug fixes or minor field addition changes can be made directly to the ECS project and submitted as pull requests.

When writing the ECS RFC and designing fields, consider how it will be possible to contribute the field to semantic conventions in the future.
Consider naming conventions, field definitions, mapping types, and conflicts with existing or proposed semantic conventions.

The same changes should be proposed to be added to [OpenTelemetry semantic conventions](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions)
before, or in parallel with, adding to the ECS schema.

> The ECS RFC process should not advance past stage 2, moving fields from beta to GA, until the fields are accepted into OpenTelemetry.

Reviewer 2: @mjwolf I know this might have been discussed offline, apologies for not keeping up:
- how will this affect rules development?
- why is general availability (which is a quality metric) tied into OTEL SemConv? I think we are trying to prevent breaking changes between ECS and OTEL but this will happen. Maybe we should consider an alternative solution?

Author: This wasn't discussed before. I thought it made sense to keep some way to allow breaking changes that might be needed to be compatible with otel, and keeping fields in beta could do it since beta fields are "subject to change".

You make a good point about how this would affect rules and other things outside the schema, and keeping fields in beta could block some usage.

I've taken this line out of the guidance. I think we can consider promoting fields to GA on a case-by-case basis, depending on how they're used and if there's any likely conflicts with otel.

Reviewer: I agree with case by case situation.
